This book is largely concerned with Hobbits, and from its pages a reader may
discover much of their charaSer and a liale of their hidoC. FuKher information will also
be found in the selection from the Red Book of Wedmarch th3 has already been
published, under the title of The Hobbit. That stoC ?s derived from the earlier cha?ers
of the Red Book, composed by Bilbo himself, the fird Hobbit to become famous in the
world 3 large, and called by him There and Back Again, since they told of his journey
into the Ead and his returnZ an adventure which later involved all the Hobbits in the
great events of that Age th3 are here related.
Many, however, may wish to know more about this remar?ble people from the
outset, while some may not possess the earlier book. For such readers a few notes on
the more impoKant points are here collected from Hobbit-lore, and the fird adventure is
briefly recalled.
Hobbits are an uno?rusive but veC ancient people, more numerous formerly
than they are today? for they love peace and quiet and good tilled eaKh Z a well-o?ered
and well-farmed countCside ?s their favourite haunt. They do not and did not
understand or like machines more complicated than a forge-bello?, a ?ter-mill, or a
hand-loom, though they were skilful with tools. Even in ancient days they were, as a
rule, shy of ?the Big Folk, as they call us, and now they avoid us with dism? and are
becoming ha? to find. They are quick of hearing and sharp-eyed, and though they are
inclined to be fat and do not hurC unnecessarily, they are nonetheless nimble and deft
in their movements. They possessed from the first the aK of disappearing swiwly and
silently, when large folk whom they do not wish to meet come blundering by? and this an
they have developed until to Men it may seem magical. But Hobbits have never, in fact,
studied magic of any kind, and their elusiveness is due solely to a pDfessional skill that
heredi? and practice, and a close friendship with the eaKh, have rendered inimitable by
bigger and clumsier races.
For they are a liale people, smaller than DwawesZ less tout and stoc?, that is,
even when they are not actually much shoKer. Their height is variable, ranging beWeen
Wo and four feet of our measure. They seldom now reach three feet? but they hive
dwindled, they say, and in ancient days they were taller. Acco?ing to the Red Book,
Bandobras Took (Bullroarer), son of Isengrim the Second, was four foot five and able to
ride a horse. He was surpassed in all Hobbit reco?s only by Wo famous characters of
old? but th3 curious m3ter is dealt with in this book.
As for the Hobbits of the Shire, with whom these tales are concerned, in the d?s
of their peace and prosperity they were a merC folk. They dressed in bright colours,
being notably fond of yellow and green? but they seldom wore shoes, since their feet
h? tough le3hery soles and were cl? in a thick curling hair, much li? the hair of their
heads, which was commonly brown. Thus, the only cr?t liale praSised among them
was shoe-making? but they had long and skilful fingers and could make many other
useful and comely things.
